# MODEL1011090000: ref_model_for_SBML

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1011090000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1011090000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This is the genome scale metabolic reconstruction of Lactobacillus plantarum
described in the article:  
**Understanding the physiology of Lactobacillus plantarum at zero growth.**   
Goffin P, van de Bunt B, Giovane M, Leveau JH, Höppener-Ogawa S, Teusink B,
Hugenholtz J. _Mol Syst Biol._ M 2010 Sep 21;6:413. PMID:
[20865006](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20865006) , DOI:
[10.1038/msb.2010.67](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/msb.2010.67)

Abstract:  
Situations of extremely low substrate availability, resulting in slow growth,
are common in natural environments. To mimic these conditions, Lactobacillus
plantarum was grown in a carbon-limited retentostat with complete biomass
retention. The physiology of extremely slow-growing L. plantarum--as studied
by genome-scale modeling and transcriptomics--was fundamentally different from
that of stationary-phase cells. Stress resistance mechanisms were not
massively induced during transition to extremely slow growth. The energy-
generating metabolism was remarkably stable and remained largely based on the
conversion of glucose to lactate. The combination of metabolic and
transcriptomic analyses revealed behaviors involved in interactions with the
environment, more particularly with plants: production of plant hormones or
precursors thereof, and preparedness for the utilization of plant-derived
substrates. Accordingly, the production of compounds interfering with plant
root development was demonstrated in slow-growing L. plantarum. Thus,
conditions of slow growth and limited substrate availability seem to trigger a
plant environment-like response, even in the absence of plant-derived
material, suggesting that this might constitute an intrinsic behavior in L.
plantarum.

This model was downloaded from the supplementary materials (
[link](http://www.nature.com/msb/journal/v6/n1/extref/msb201067-s6.xml) ) to
the article. To make this file valid SBML the units of all parameters where
changed from mmole per gDW per hour to mmole per hour. The model can be used
eg. fpr FBA with the [COBRA
toolbox](http://gcrg.ucsd.edu/Downloads/Cobra_Toolbox) , amongst others.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


